If I could go back in time, the one thing I would surely change is I would have made my “style” on the outside match the inside. I would have worked harder on my chub and got the figure I wanted so that I could totally rock the rockabilly, horror classic, retro chic look. Of course, I know I can still rock this look with my chub but, for me, it’s not the same, I want hour glass pin-up body, not victoria secret model skinny, mind you, they need a few cheeseburgers for my liking. I guess that’s why I love SL, or maybe that’s where the problem lies….My love for SL. Too busy playing with my doll and not enough getting out there and busting my ass to get the physical body I want. ANYWHO, back to SL, I can make my “doll” anything I want, I can channel my inner self onto her. And I do….often. I love victory rolls and it sucks that they are SO hard to do on yourself. Your arms get all tired being over your head so long lol. At least mine do. Most of the time I say fuck it and do something else entirely. It’s so hard looking pretty! Luckily in SL there is an abundance of retro hair styles like this new one from Spellbound. What makes it even more amazing is the V-bangs you can attach to it. And attach I do. I love v-bangs and have actually rocked those in RL. They are an effort to maintain though. I think maybe they are the mother of baby bangs, someone was trying to make vbangs and they kept snipping and snipping, trying to get the right look and angle and then they found that they had made them too short on one side and they couldn’t correct it, so they just cut them super short all the way across. That’s my theory anyways. Suicide Gurls – Ne Zha Unisex Tattoo ::drbc:: crush tank – cherry bomb -tresblah- Leather Leggings – Black +Spellbound+ Jezebel // Rainbows *League* Skin Erin Fair -Feline *League* Gift: 3 Classic Wing Eyeliners IKON Spectral Eyes – Apparition Garage *Eyelashes v.20* Happy Undead – Chained Flip Flops Dark Passions- Koffin Nails – Slink Toes HUD – Kooky Spooky Flair – Fingernails Applier Slink A/E – Set 31 Pictures Taken @ Flo’s Trailer Park, Diner and Drive In Theater