when i watch a season finale, i want to feel like i’m about to have sex. i want to feel like i’m about to have sex with a wolf i’m extremely attracted too. you know the feelings. blood racing. hands sweating. thinking about the big throw down. “oooh i can’t wait for tonight!” well tonight felt like i was dating that wolf, we finally got in the bed , and… …he morphed into madea in a  two piece lingerie. ….which then leads me to wake up because i was clearly having a nightmare . that is all i could think while watching #hahnfinale : OUT OF CONTROL what the hell was going on? seriously? that irrelevant scene with celine and jim that irrelevant scene with candace and hannah jeffrey being the ultimate bitch tonight “its quincy bitch” in the living room quincy punching jim on one side and lumps on lumps on the other that disgusting stage makeup that looked like bbq sauce that dehydrated snow bunny that needed to drink niagra falls the whole rhythm nation background dancers grabbing up jim outside the fact he was in bed with no ice packs on his lumps amanda’s overkill on this crazy storyline like… if i heard “eenie meenie miney moe” one mo’ gin… that shit was nauseating . it seriously did not make me want to tune back in january. it was extremely underwhelming . the season wasn’t all that great either. it also made me realize just how bad a writer tyler perry is. i can’t really complaining about the actors. they get terrible scripts . well i already knew this since i complained a lot, but tonight sealed the deal for me. am i the only one feeling like this? lowkey: this new show, “if loving you is wrong”, looks like a knock off desperate housewives . which was produced by marc cherry and written by… his writing team! i’m only here for: …and even he may not be able to hold my attention for too long. sorry denzel. The post Tyler Perry is Out of Control appeared first on inside jamari fox . Related posts: Have Tyler Perry Re-Shoot That Season Finale (Pronto!) WOLVES: TYLER PERRY WANTS YOUR MEAT! Ya’ll Should Be Ashamed For Not Supporting The Great Tyler Perry