In the interests of maintaining this blog with little of consequence happening in my authorial career, I asked Lorelei Mathias to write a post for me. Lorelei is a published author who also works as an advertising creative, so I thought an insight into her experiences would be worth a read. And so it proved.  Below I have printed her post, but if you want to check out her advertising work with her partner Nat (Hi Nat!), check out www.lollyandnat.com   There's also more on her writing at www.loreleimathias.com Enjoy:  Hello, Not sure where to start really… but the hardest thing with all writing is getting started, isn’t it? Even as the second hardest thing is tearing yourself away again. Not to mention the whole business of getting published – which as we all know is no picnic either.   Ben’s already mentioned the brilliant Guardian supplement on how to write and get published. The only other two books I’d recommend are Stephen King’s ‘On Writing’ and John Braine’s ‘Writing a Novel’ – if nothing else, Braine is worth it just for his hilariously old-fashioned opinions. Also, another sweet writer’s blog I’d recommend is http://noveltea-jude.blogspot.com/   For what it’s worth, I think getting your name on a spine is a mixture of ability, tenacity and having written the right thing at the right time.   It was all a bit of a daze for me. I was working at Random House at the time, writing ads for books and reading truckloads of manuscripts. The more I read, the more I started wondering about having a go. I’d never really taken my writing that seriously or been on a creative writing course, but I did have a scrappy notebook full of drivel, which I’d begun as a kind of joke between friends in a hammock in South-east Asia and since buried deep in a drawer. Set in advertising, it was 97% rubbish and had no idea in it, but then that’s mostly all you need when it comes to writing. A starting point.   “The only way I can get anything written at all is to write really, really shitty first drafts. If one of my characters wants to say ‘hey there Mr Poopy Pants’, then I let him.”   So says Ann Le Motte, and ever since I read that quote (I forget where), it’s been a kind of mantra, both for novel-writing and for copywriting.     The other thing you need is a good idea (obviously) – but preferably one that’s original and sellable. So one day I hit upon the idea for a novel about a horrendous new trend (at the time) called speed-dating. I went to see one of the heads of fiction at RH, and pitched an outline to her. At the time she was all, ‘Oh that’s great. Who shall we get to write it?’. To which I had to confess that I fancied having a go. Not an easy thing to admit when you work in publishing – it’s rather like coming out. I imagine.   Anyway, I then realised my half novel of drivel would be the perfect setting – being as there is a quite uncanny parallel between dating and advertising – the way the speed-date reduces people to products, USPs and 3-minute pitches. So I set about completely re-writing what I’d written before but with this new idea in mind, and begun a series of utterly hellish speed-dating evenings by way of research. My writing then became motivated by two things. A journalistic fascination with the horrors of speed-dating, and the panic that if I didn’t write a book about it first, someone would. I was also afraid this fad would die out, but for some reason it hasn’t and it’s still popular.   So the whole thing became very rushed (which I have no doubt will have affected the quality of writing!). This was to set the tone for the entire venture, for the half-manuscript was then bought by Headline in a 2-book deal, with a fixed deadline that meant I had only 6 weeks in which to write the entire 2 nd half. So one bit of advice would be to write the whole thing before you start seeking an agent or publisher – you’ll only land yourself in hotwater if the deadline suddenly creeps up on you. You see, editors work in terms of slots – if they have gaps and you can fit into their imprint’s schedule, they’ll look kindlier on you.     Everyone writes differently, and my own way of writing is pretty strange. I had ridiculous word count deadlines to meet, and found myself bashing out 4k a day. It really was ‘bashing out,’ not crafting. But that’s just the way I work. Some people will write a paragraph of beautifully crafted words at the end of the day that would be ready to print, but I prefer to go through and mark out the whole story first before going back and finessing. My process is never very linear either. I might get an urge to write chapter 17 before I write chapter 6, just because I feel I can see that bit happening more vividly at the time. Writing is definitely rewriting.   Also, I don’t know how many people suffer from their inner editor or ‘doubt monster’ taking over when they’re trying to write, but I personally grapple daily with an evil little bugger that I like to call Cedric. He is that curmudgeonly voice that chants negative things while you try and write. Or more specifically, as they put it in the Guardian guide, ‘This is all rubbish and you should never write another word ever again.’   So another bit of advice is to lock all traces of your inner critic away in a cupboard until the end of your first draft. Then when its time for rewriting, you can open the door and let him (I’m certain it’s a he) out to cast his evil eye. You do need to be critical of your own work, but there’s a time for that, and its not when you’re trying to get going. Procrastination – the art of finding any part of the house that needs cleaning or reorganising - and your inner critic are, I think, a writers two biggest enemies.   I’m sure I’ve already rambled on long enough, but Ben also wanted me to say what it feels like to be published. The main thing to say is that it’s just never as exciting as you’d expect! Maybe I was jaded because I knew too much about the whole process already, so it just wasn’t as novel (sorry) as it might’ve been. Or maybe it’s to do with how my imprint are very brand-focused, so they don’t actually do a lot to promote or market their individual authors. At first I thought this was a bit of a let-down, but then I saw it as an interesting opportunity. Having no budget assigned to me, I then had freedom to promote my own work any way I wanted. So I started experimenting with making virals and book trailers on Youtube Step on it Cupid  and Lost For Words. . which has turned out to be really effective and led to all sorts of other PR opportunities at London Book Fair and beyond.   Sometimes it’s the little moments that make you really appreciate it though. Like when you see someone in a bookshop happen to pick up your book, read the back cover and go and buy it. Or like today, when a friend of mine saw someone reading it on the tube and emailed me a picture he’d somewhat creepily taken on his camera phone! Poor girl.   Another thing is that unless you’re at JK Rowling’s level or you’re Jordan, you’re not going to be giving up your day job. The advances and royalties are rarely as big as you hear about. I’ve been lucky to earn out my advance through foreign sales, in that my books have been translated into four other languages. But basically, don’t write a book if you’re doing it for the money – you’ve got to do it for other reasons.   As both Step on it Cupid and Lost for Words were so rushed, I’m spending so much longer on book three. I’ve got this analogy I’m currently using to justify my procrastination. You know those cookery programmes where the chefs obsessively arrange all their ingredients into neat little bowls, before they even think about starting? Well that’s how I’m treating my characters this time around, now that I have the luxury of time. As much as I really want to jump in and start writing, I want to make sure I’ve got everything properly measured out and built up enough depth to each character – e.g. what’s their favourite music, what kind of shampoo do they use etc… only then can I feel ready. That’s my agents’ perennial bit of writing advice – it’s got to be all about the character. The plot will follow.   One final thing. I don’t know if other writers find this, but there is always a certain amount of life imitating art going on. At the same time I agreed on the book deal, I was offered a job in an ad agency in Soho just like the one I’d been writing about in Step on it Cupid . Apart from a few work placements over the years and BMP’s Summer School, my exposure to agency life had been fleeting. But when I handed in my novel and went to start my new job, I couldn’t believe how much the agency in my imagined world turned out to be just like the one I’d just been writing about. I don’t know if other writers find this, but there were all sorts of bizarre similarities, which I wont bore you with now… but since then every time I start writing something, it’s weird but my own life does tend to imitate the patterns. So with that in mind my next book is probably going to be all about a lottery winner.  