Longtime readers of 5B4 will know I have continuously sung the praises of the Institut fur Buchkunst in Leipzig. The quality of the books they publish, most often by their students and instructors, have earned a special place on my shelves because of their content and clever design. Not to mention that some of the books (at 10-35 euros) are so absurdly cheap to acquire for their quality. One recent series of "publications" I discovered last year is by the graphic designer and instructor at the Institute Gunther Karl Bose. I put the word publications in quotes because these are more single image works of art than a traditional "book". Yesterday's Pictures is a small series of images Bose has produced from his archive of 1960s-70s advertising images which are backed in linen and which unfold like a map from the delicate size of 4X6 inches to approximately 16X20. My favorite so far is Yesterday's Pictures #4 whose title is Miller Beer Six-Pack. The original image was created in 1960 by a commercial firm in Milwaukee Wisconsin called Genack Studio and shows a slightly larger than life pair of man's hands assembling (or disassembling) the cardboard container of a six-pack of Miller Beer bottles. Simple and straight forward? Yes and no. The linen gaps break the overall picture into a grid contributing additional lines and angles to an already dimensionally complicated photo. Other images in the series I found to be a bit more kitsch heavy - two 1960s-era nude women photographing each other, a woman holding up a color chart, and a Chinese bottle of coca-cola. All of the images are from the personal archive of Gunther Karl Bose. Yesterday's Pictures are a little more expensive at 40 euros each but they are in very small editions of 20 per image. I am not sure where to buy them as I have only seen them at the Kassel Fotobook festival and there is no ordering information online via the Institute or anywhere else. If I find out more information, I'll post it in the comments section.