BQI Editor’s Note I apologize for this long introductory comment but this is an issue that’s close to home and is very frustrating for me. In both of the last two presidential elections, blacks supported Barack Obama in large numbers. In my debates…o.k. heated arguments with my black friends and family members; I often would and still ask the question, what has Obama done to deserve this level of support. In 2008 it was a race thing, seeing the first black president trumped EVERYTHING, including common sense. In 2012, after feeling the sting from his policies, often being dissed and ignored; seeing his detachment and maybe even disdain for the black community, the only rational explanation for why blacks would again overwhelmingly support Obama is explained by one word…RACE, well o.k. two words the other being stupidity but let’s just focus on the former. Nothing but the color of his skin could explain why people would ignore their realities; high levels of crime, unemployment, poverty, moral decay, abortion rates, all of which were exacerbated by Obama’s presidency, and again place a man in office that clearly was, at best, disinterested in their conditions and at worse knowingly making matters worse. What, then, is keeping Obama from reaching out to the black community by directly addressing at least one of the community’s issues? Now that Obama is in his last term and blacks can no longer send him back to office, Obama can’t offer any excuses for not singling out the black community for some preferential treatment. Oh, don’t get me wrong, I don’t believe our community or any other constituent or community should gain any sort of special treatment. Rather, Obama should make decisions for the betterment of all Americans. However, by singling out special care for some of his constituents and not others, you – black folks, causes one to wonder why? A liberal…. no, a sycophant Obama supporter, once told me that Obama is limited to what he can do for the black community. As the first black president, Obama has to be careful not to be seen as singling out the black community for preferential treatment because he is president of all Americans. Well it seems Obama did not get the message for he has singled out every one of his constituents for special-favorable treatment and no one has criticized him, well no one other than conservative folks like me. Obama has six major constituent groups and his singular favorable treatment for them includes; Women: Signing the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, creating the “war on women” narrative and providing major funding for women causes or organizations such as Planned Parenthood Unions:  transferred hundreds of millions of dollars to bailout healthcare/pension plans. He also transferred part ownership of GM to unions Hispanics: unilaterally conferring legal status on millions of illegals and literally opened our southern borders to allow a massive influx of illegal children into the country. Gays: endorsed gay marriage; eliminated don’t ask don’t tell Environmentalist: refused to endorse the XL pipeline and authorized the EPA to take massive administrative action to shut down coal fired plants and to stifle the exploration of carbon based energy Blacks: zippo, zilch, nothing, zero. Based on these acts Obama should not be at all concerned with opening up himself to criticism as a basis for not fixing or offering any “black” laced goodies to the black community. Below is an article, I’m sure, written by a black person. In it, the author makes his “best” case for fending off criticism by blacks and non-blacks that Obama has done nothing in particular for the black community.  In reading the article I sympathized for the author. To write this article, knowing that he had no real substantive facts or information that would explain Obama’s noticeable absence of support for blacks, I envisioned a man in a twisted, contorted state knowing that he would have to offer the flimsiest of facts to try and prove Obama’s care and commitment to the black community. From a historical and social standpoint I can understand the black community’s desire to see Barack Obama become and succeed as president of the United States. I get it. But after years of mistreatment, disrespect, disinterest, dismissal and fake outrage over the black condition in America, there comes a time when you just have to say enough and begin to seek answers and solutions that really will make a positive difference. For black Americans, that time has come and gone, sadly. Face it, blacks are door mats for the Democrat Party and it is they who are to blame for, in a monolithic way, supporting people and parties that refuse to earn their support while simultaneously demonizing people and a party that stands for policies and ideas that will make a positive difference. BQI Editor President Barack Obama’s Continued Impact On Black America Jan 20, 2014 By D.L. Chandler Across the nation, January 20th signifies the federal holiday celebrated in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.‘s birthday. It also marks the day when President Barack Obama offically took office on that cold winter day in 2009. Now in his fifth year, President Obama has faced uncharted scrutiny for a man who was a darling of voters when he won the election back in 2008. But along with the criticism that continues to rain down, there are many notable contributions the President has made to the Black community. Continue to article