Der beliebte und bekannte Scroogle Proxy Dienst hat aktuell Probleme mit Google, wie zu lesen ist, wenn man Scroogle aufruft bzw. eine Suchanfrage absetzt: We regret to announce that our Google scraper may have to be permanently retired, thanks to a change at Google. It depends on whether Google is willing to restore the simple interface that we've been scraping since Scroogle started five years ago. Actually, we've been using that interface for scraping since Google-Watch.org began in 2002. This interface (here's a sample from years ago) was remarkably stable all that time. During those eight years there were only about five changes that required some programming adjustments. Also, this interface was available at every Google data center in exactly the same form, which allowed us to use 700 IP addresses for Google. That interface was at www.google.com/ie but on May 10, 2010 they took it down and inserted a redirect to /toolbar/ie8/sidebar.html. It used to have a search box, and the results it showed were generic during that entire time. It didn't show the snippets unless you moused-over the links it produced (they were there for our program, so that was okay), and it has never had any ads. Our impression was that these results were from Google's basic algorithms, and that extra features and ads were added on top of these generic results. Three years ago Google launched "Universal Search," which meant that they added results from other Google services on their pages. But this simple interface we were using was not affected at all. usw. Da Scroogle immer ganz praktisch bei der Nutzung von Tor war, um den lästigen "We're sorry" Meldungen und Captcha Anfragen zu entgehen, muss schnell ein temporärer Ersatz her: Entweder man nimmt Ixquick oder man sucht sich bei Mycroft einen anderen Ersatz und kann dann dort direkt das passende Search Engine Plugin in Firefox installieren. Mit zwei Anonymouse oder auch dem "Ninja" Plugin klappt das ganz gut. Und da eh alle Suchanfragen bei mir per Privoxy und Tor gefiltert und anonymisiert an den Suchdienst rausgehen... Aber mir wäre lieber, wenn das Scroogle wieder geregelt bekommt Nur wenn man einen Suchdienst erwischt, den Google selbst als "Gefährder" einstuft oder der Suchdienst die IP des Tor Exit Node an Google weiterreicht, kann man wieder schlechte Karten bei Google haben. Update: Mal wieder viel Geschrei um nix, laut Scroogle scrapes back to life kann wieder gescroogelt werden Siehe auch: Heise - EU-Datenschützer fordern echte Anonymisierung von Suchanfragen (27.05.2010)