With the value of history behind us, as a country, we should be in a much better position to understand the words and comments of people who profess to love America and who, allegedly, want what is best for Americans. Unlike most Americans, conservatives knew what we were getting when we made Barack president and Michelle First Lady. We knew that they were devout radicals who would aggressively transform America away from our foundation of Judeo/Christian values into something most Americans, even the naive ones who helped put the Obamas in the White House, would not necessarily want.  Words have meaning so when the Obamas uttered these words conservatives knew generally that this would not bode well for the country and now the evidence is in and has proven conservatives right, literally and figuratively. Listen: Michelle Obama says that we need to change our history and Obama will make it happen. Obama promises to carry-out what Michelle told the audience in Puerto Rico. He will fundamentally transform America. Now the transformation begins and our history and foundation values have changed. Those of you who pay attention to politics might remember this scene at the last Democratic National Convention held in North Carolina. Clearly Senator Durbin was extremely defensive over the fear of Democrats being labeled as “godless” for having taken God out of their convention platform; an act that drew considerable media attention and public criticism. Ultimately, the Democratic National Convention [DNC] took steps to reinsert the Divine into their party platform [ in this video it was clear that the votes were not there to put “God” back into the platform, in effect rejecting God three times.  Embarrassed, the floor chair rammed it through anyway.] but, quite honestly, the damage had been done. As so many conservatives tirelessly point out, the left, represented by the Democrat Party, progressives and liberals generally, are actors in an American scene where aggressive steps are being taken to attack and marginalize those of the Christian faith. They advocate policies and programs that are a complete contravention of Christian values and they seek to secularize American society. People of faith, the Christian faith, see the world in very clear, stock terms of absolutes. We break the world down into two basic camps; God’s and Satan’s and this is further explained in terms of good and bad or black and white or cold and hot or night and day – absolutes. Others may disagree, saying the world is not in absolutes but in mixed terms like not black or white but grays; not hot or cold but luke warm and not night or day but dawn. Nevertheless, conservatives tend to see the world, issues and events, in the two camps already mentioned. Yes, one can attempt to make the case that these absolutes are not reflective or indicative of real life where some issues are not as clear cut and instead tend to be a bit nebulous. While this argument certainly can be attempted, the fact remains that if grey areas exists they exists largely because someone refuses to make a judgement call mainly due to political correctness. By refusing to see an issue in its basic core reality, its basic color; that being black or white, the case can then be made that solutions will be difficult to achieve. Grey areas allow liberals and progressives to recycle issues incessantly, always making the case that more and more is needed by government not to fix but rather to moderate the impact of the issue on society. [note: welfare and the southerner border] But the question remains, are liberals, progressives and democrats godless? As the reaction to the DNC’s attempt to remove God shows, America has not reached a point of accepting the belief that we are a secular society. Although Obama, progressives and liberals are working hard to get us there [Obama statement we are no longer a Christian nation], the fact is, for now we are still a Christian nation, so recognizing this reality Democrats, progressives and liberals have to keep the façade that they are not anti-God or anti-Christian. But as scripture says, “you shall know them by their fruits” [Matthew 7:16]. So, perhaps, a better question to ask is what fruit have liberals, progressives and democrats born to tell us who they really are? To answer this question lets look at them; politicians, policies, programs, affiliations or supporting organizations, etc.  The question to ask in all of the following examples is, are their fruits, not words, consistent with Christian values or some other set values [Satanic] ? POLITICIANS Harry Reid: when asked why not help at least one child with  cancer, Reid gave a heartless non christian answer. Nancy Pelosi: O.K. like Obama, Pelosi is a special case. As is the case for all liberals, progressives and democrats, they have an incessant fake out cry for all things to support children yet they turn around and vigorously support ALL forms of abortion. In reality if it furthers their political agenda of expanding government and government’s ability to control people, then it’s a winner otherwise they attack. Here is Nancy, the “lioness”, making her passionate plea for more money, bigger government, to protect children.       Compare that with an equal level of passion by Nancy to kill the children she so passionately cared about when trying to grow government.   In the video the reporter asked Pelosi to explain the distinction between Dr. Gosnell killing a 23 week old baby born alive with a doctor killing a baby still in the womb. Nancy says she is a devout Catholic and that she is living up to the Church’s stance on abortion. On other issues, Nancy is equally hypocritical.  In this video, Nancy uses her Catholic religion to support her position in favor of gay marriage. Clearly the Catholic church as does Christian scripture, says that marriage should be between a man and a woman. Marriage between a man and a woman was instituted by God with Adam and Eve. Genesis 2:24 states: “Therefore a man leaves his father and his mother and cleaves to his wife, and they become one flesh.” In Matthew 19:4-5, Jesus reaffirms this: “He answered, ‘Have you not read that he who made them from the beginning made them male and female,’ and said, ‘For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one’?” Clearly Christianity teaches the complete opposite of what Nancy says. Again, because it expands her political power, it is something that she and other liberals, progressives will support . Nancy’s hypocrisy does not end here. As noted in this picture, it is known that Pelosi [video] routinely marches or participates in gay pride parades. Often in these parades, held in San Francisco, there is a contingency of NAMBLA [North America Man/Boy Love Association] supporters. 3. Barack Obama: Where to begin? Remember, Obama is the head of the Democrat Party. Lets’ start with some Obama quotes: 20 Obama Quotes About Islam Contrasted With 20 Obama Quotes About Christianity Here Obama refuses to say “under God” as he recites the Gettysburg address. Here he omits the word “Creator”. To be certain this was not an oversight he again omits using the term. But  it’s not just Obama. Senator Harry Reid omitted God in referencing the pledge of allegiance as did Democrat Congresswoman Betty McCollum. Obama has a long and sorted history of cynicism, hypocrisy, indifference and hate  towards things Christian. The list is long and undistinctive. While he offered himself as a Christian, it is clear now that his earlier behavior and comments were all an act directed mainly to aid in his first election as president. A great web site for his anti-Christian behavior, policies and actions can be found at Wall Builders. But a few are cited here. Cynicism: here, as potential candidate, Obama mocks Christianity and the bible. Hypocrisy: in the same speech, Obama makes clear that he does not see America as a Christian nation. And if there is any belief that this was taken out of context or does not represent his true beliefs,  after becoming president he repeated the statement. Here Obama professes his Christian faith and he also says that he never had or practiced a different religion.  Yet, he denies the most important of Christian tenets and beliefs; that Jesus is the only way to heaven. Obama’s comments about heaven veer from more common Christian beliefs that Jesus is the only way to heaven. According to Barack Obama there are many ways to heaven. Indifference: On numerous occasions, Obama has expressed his strong desire that Islam not be mocked, ridiculed or defamed in any way yet, thousands of Christians are being tortured, killed and extricated from their homes by Islamic extremist and Obama has been silent and has refused to speak out or lend any support in bringing an end to the violence. Obama has placed many Muslims into his administration and he celebrated Muslim holiday at the White House, yet, he orders the Christian cross covered before he speaks at Georgetown University.  After cancelling the national Day of Prayer on several occasions, when one was held, Obama invited Muslim clerics to pray at the event  while uninviting and denying the same honor to Reverend Franklin Graham, son of the venerable Reverend Billy Graham. Policies: Obama’s assault on Christianity has taken on a sense of obsession. He has used the legislative process or Executive Powers, to pass policies and his signature legislative success, Obamacare, which sought to force upon religious based organizations, the responsibility to provide and pay for abortion inducing drugs.  Companies like Hobby Lobby challenged this policy and law and won a victory at the United States Supreme Court. In this article a member of the Catholic church, the Vatican Chief Justice, attacked Obama’s policies as being hostile to Christianity and Christian civilization. Hatred: Obama’s anti-Christian policies have no less affected America’s military as well. In this article we learn that the Pentagon has tapped an anti-Christian extremist to present a religious tolerance program  to be implemented for the military. Well as you might suspect, there’s tolerance and then there is tolerance. The Obama Administration seems to have an abundance of tolerance for Islamic teachings in our military and much less tolerance for any acknowledgement of Christ and Christianity.  And while faith was not necessarily a driver, it appears that the Obama administration is taking aggressive action to purge our military of any officer who does not cow down to the Obama administration and who aren’t willing to violate their oath of office to protect and defend the Constitution. AFFILIATIONS Perhaps no clearer indication of attitudes by liberals, Progressives and Democrats can be found than by looking at the type of associations and organizations that they support and that support them. Planned Parenthood [PP]: an organization founded by racist-eugenicist Margaret Sanger, PP is one of if not the biggest supporter of the democrat party and all liberals and progressives. In turn these people provide unwavering support to PP which is often seen in policies to direct increasingly more federal funding to the organization. Keep in mind that Sanger’s goal was to rid the world of the “feeble minded, blacks, the handicapped” and any others deemed by her and her followers as inappropriate and a burden on society. PP has evolved into a big business with the majority of its funds generated from it’s abortion clinics.  As a consequence, PP has adopted and promoted youth programs targeted toward encouraging risky life-style behaviors which in-turn drives the need for abortions. Over the last two years, increasingly, more videos are being reported showing PP employees acting  illegally or immorally. Communist Party USA: Anyone who knows anything about communism knows that the ideology is anti-God. The father of Communism, Karl Marxs, had this to say about religion: Religion is the impotence of the human mind to deal with occurrences it cannot understand. “atheism” … reminds one of children, assuring everyone who is ready to listen to them that they are not afraid of the boogie man.” Karl Marx, Letter to 30 November 1842 So one can extrapolate, then, that anyone who aligns themselves with the communist ideology likely shares the views expressed by Karl Marxs. Oh for sure, for PC reasons, some will deny any hostility towards religion but the fact is like minds are attracted to one another. In 2008 the Communist Party USA endorsed Barack Obama for president. Within the last two years there were revelations that many members of the US Congress were either members of the Communist Party USA, or received endorsement from the organization. President Obama in fact had several devout communist in his administration. Van Jones is an un-repented Communist. Anita Dunn, former White house Communication director gave a speech where she said that one of her most admired persons was Communist dictator Mao Zedong. Obama’s own mentor during his childhood was Frank Marshall Davis, a card carrying, FBI monitored communist and there are others. Socialist Party USA: Like the Communist Party USA, the Socialist Party USA also endorsed Barack Obama in both presidential elections. Similar to communism, socialism also discredits religious faith and again, like communism, there are numerous Congressional Democrats who voluntarily associate themselves with socialism. For example, Congressman Danny Davis, from Chicago, is an unabashed socialist/communist and also a member of the New Party. As I researched for this article one fact became crystal clear, there is a mountain of information out there that would be further evidence of the type of fruits born by liberals, democrats and progressives. As I’ve indicated, many liberals, progressives and democrats understand the need to maintain that façade of 