The following video tells us quite a few things if it is the genuine article. It does appear to be the real McCoy. CNN and FOX and others need to stop with the nonsense that the plane’s wreckage is scattered over miles. As you can see on the video, the right engine/fuel tank is on fire and the plane is intact. This means the final moments for those poor passengers was an utter horror. I don’t even want to imagine the screams and panic that filled the plane. This also tells us something about the BUK warhead used on the missile. The plane may have been acquired with radar but the missile itself appears to have had a heat-seeking capability as well. It it was simply an aerial burst with fragmentation then the plane should have come apart from a catastrophic decompression. That’s not what the video shows. Whoever was taking the video anticipated that an aircraft was going to be attacked. The camera filming had a robust zoom capability and the camera operator was able to acquire the plane and track it. This is not a case of a kid with an IPhone just getting lucky and grabbing some incredible footage. The blame game also is heating up. US intel sources are busy trying to pin this on the Russians. However, the Russians are pointing the finger at the Ukrainians . What’s really odd is the voices in the West demanding that Putin get into the Ukraine and allow the investigation to go forward. Excuse me? We’re demanding that Russia move into Ukraine and take control of the site? Many of our politicians have lost their minds. UPDATE–This video appears to have been shot on 6 June and coincides with the downing of the Ukrainian military plane. What is interesting is that the Antonov appears very similar at a distance to the 777. My other points are still valid. The ground wreckage does not appear to resemble Pan Am 103, which did break up in mid air and scattered bodies and plane parts over a very wide area. If the rebels shot down what they thought was another military aircraft, did they shoot a video?